One thing we can do for example and I mentioned this earlier on the slide is we can add plugins after
we created this
and for this, of course we need to know which plugins exist. All plugins including the ones you could
create manually have to follow a certain naming pattern,
the package is published on npm have to be named vue-cli-plugin- and then the name
of the plugin and you can choose that name on your own
if you are developing such a plugin
and here we already see some plugin, well suggestions by Google.
There also are some official plugins,
they are stored in @vue/cli-
plugin folder, there we have things like babel linting,
these were the options you could choose from during the set up
but if you add your own ones or if you want to use plugins developed by other vue developers, well then
you would name the package just like this.
And here for example, let's look at that have vuetify plugin, we can install that plugin into our project and
to install it,
we don't need to run npm install but for packages which are named like this
and that's important,
this has to be the name, you can run a command in the terminal
and this is the normal terminal here just opened in my project
and that command is vue@
and then just the last part of that name,
so here we can add vuetify.
So I can run vue@vuetify
and it will automatically find this package because it follows that naming convention and we'll install
it and set it up and run through any prompts this plugin might ask me.
You'll find a link to how you can create your own plugins in the last lecture of this module so that
you get a deeper understanding of how you could create your own plugins
and this is of course a cool feature because it makes your app very extensible and it's easy to add
new features to it after you create the project.
So here the cli, the vuetify cli plugin for example asks me if I want to use a certain premade
plugin which would replace some of my files and let's choose yes here maybe, we can choose a custom theme,
I'll hit
no, the other card components, now that's something vuetify specific which would simply mean we install
or we import each component on its own to keep our bundles small so
let's use yes. Yeah let's add a polyfill and let's hit enter and now this will install the package, the
npm package,
we could have done that without the vue cli, with npm install
but the thing it does besides that is that it adds this extra configuration, these extra prompts, it changes
the project as you saw, it changed our files.
And if I now bring up that dev server again and for that, I have to quit it first,
you should quit it and restart it after well doing bigger changes like this,
if I now run that again, whoops, npm run service command, now it will start the development server
again and hopefully the vuetify plugin didn't break anything, so we should still see a working
app here,
yes we do
and this is now using vuetify and gives us that default set up which we installed with our prompt answers.
And that is how to think about the new cli, it's plugin driven,
you can set up a configuration which is very detailed when you create a new project and you can always
add plugins to the existing project
thereafter. You can also still install packages without the cli of course,
you can still run in a new terminal window here, npm install and then whichever package you need
because not every package you need is a vue cli
plugin, for example axios
as far as I know doesn't have a vue cli plugin yet,
so if you install axios, you still would have to do it like this and then you can use it as taught in
the axios module of this course.
So you are not limited to vue
cli plugins only
but if you got such a plugin, installing and adding it is particularly easy.